in music there are some genres
that only make sense when performed
at a small scale in the intimacy of a
chamber of a tiny recital hall where the
number of people in the audience may
barely outnumber
the musicians there are some forms of
music
that only seem to make sense in a dance
club
with hundreds or thousands of people
jumping up and down
beneath blinking lights and there are
some forms of music
that are specially composed to be
performed in a stadium
over huge speakers with a certain amount
of echo and a certain amount of reverb
and a certain amount of delay
it only makes sense in that format for
that audience
in the same way implicitly there are
modes of political reasoning
that only make sense or only make sense
to the enthusiasts who believe in them
at a small scale at a medium scale and
at an enormous scale
and it's really important to challenge
people by switching between
those frames of reference by saying yes
you believe in this towering abstraction
when it's applied to this notion of
society or the whole world
but can you make sense of it on the
scale of a single household
of a single neighborhood of a single
city or of a
small country it's a great deal of
grandstanding right now in the aftermath
of the death of george floyd the
rise and fall of the black lives matter
protest
everyone wants to be on the right side
of history
this is the phrase
we'd like to imagine it's associated
with great courage
right stepping forward to be on the
right side of history sacrificing
yourself for your comfortable bourgeois
existence to make sure you're on the
right side of history
but what i see in the year 2020 is a
great deal of
cowardice what i see are political
commentators and analysts
who've managed to go the whole way
through the year 2020
without making a single simple statement
about george floyd and black lives
matter
there are a whole lot of people who see
what's wrong with
the defund the police movement it's
myriad incarnations
the police abolitionist movement as it's
now
called and they are not stepping forward
to let their voices appear they are not
engaging
in constructive criticism they are not
engaging in public education or debate
not even when that's their full-time job
as an author as an analyst as a
commentator as a youtuber
i am aghast to see that jj mccullough
supposedly conservative uh commentator
here on youtube all these months have
gone by seems like he just has
just has nothing to say about the death
of george floyd the the rise and fall of
uh
black lives matter movement and here
he's in the same part of canada i mean
here in the pacific northwest
we're just not that far away from
seattle
and portland oregon we feel the
reverberations of these things
in that part of the united states of
america quite quite keenly and there's a
great deal to say
and there's a great deal to be learned
from mutual analysis
frankly there's a great deal to be
learned from being wrong
and then later noticing that you were
wrong and learning from your mistakes
and there is absolutely nothing to be
learned from silence
and uh this kind of defensive silence i
see
across the whole moderate middle of the
political spectrum all the pragmatists
terrified to be on the wrong side of
history on this issue
it's really especially shameful it's
really especially
blameworthy what would i say if i had a
friend
who supported police abolitionism
who supported defunding the place i
talked through a few different
hypotheticals
and these hypothetical exercises would
challenge them
not to think about this issue on the
largest scale imaginable
on this kind of stunning grandiose scale
of
you know they will say things like the
whole world will be better
if there were no police and there were
no prisons and there were no
oppression right so that's everything is
as
abstract and generalized as possible and
yet it's much more difficult
for them to think it through and come to
positive conclusions when we think of
the level of a household a neighborhood
a small country so on and so forth
what if we had a law saying that
within every household within every home
no policeman shall set foot no law
shall apply no laws shall ever be
enforced
that within the privacy of a home of a
household the father and mother
make up their own sense of right and
wrong carry out their own rules of
justice
and uh you know the people's court has
no business
in the bedrooms of the nation all right
this is a very ancient
notion of how to organize a society and
right away you can think through the
terrible implications
this would have what if a family
just decides they don't want to put
their kids into school that want to
raise their kids
illiterate they're crazy religious
fundamentalists they don't want their
kids
going to public school no no no then we
want the government to step in intervene
what if the father is just an alcoholic
who beats up his
wife and kids no no no then we want the
government to intervene in fact
for most people the center the pragmatic
middle of the political spectrum
even more so on the far left wing they
want all kinds of constant
government intervention all kinds of
intrusion
of the law and police authority into the
privacy
of the home on this smaller scale how
about private businesses
what if we just abolished the police or
defunded the police
within the four walls of every shop of
every
restaurant of every private business you
say hey look it's up to the employer and
them the employees to sort of their own
sense of justice
their own sense of right and wrong have
their own negotiations and their own
conflict resolution mechanisms
and the government and the courts and
the police have have no place in it
the police officers will never step in
you don't think there are some
businesses that would refuse to hire
people
because they're black there aren't some
businesses that would be racially
prejudiced in their
hiring practices you don't think there
are some businesses
that would refuse customers because
they're black
again the whole moderate middle of the
political spectrum
and even more on the left wing actually
wants
a very active police presence governing
all the things
corporations and companies do they don't
want to live in a world
where black people walk into a car
rental
business and the owner of the car rental
business just says look
um i've had a lot of bad experiences
with black customers and
i'm not interested in renting to black
people anymore where and where they have
the freedom to say that and do that say
hey it's a private business
the government doesn't regulate this
sort of thing they're at liberty to do
business with whomever they choose and
to refuse
anyone they choose and if that's on the
basis of racial prejudice of racism then
that's
that's their right it's their freedom
nobody i can't say nobody wants this
there's a radical element of the right
wing
that wants this kind of lawlessness
there were anarcho-capitalists there
were right-wing libertarians or there
are
neo-nazis who want this but these
left-wing people
that's not the kind of society they want
to live in so why are you talking about
abolishing the police why are you
talking about abolishing prisons why are
you talking about
even at this small scale it's
unthinkable and as you scale it up and
scale it up in fact the problems become
worse and worse not better
but somehow you the hypothetical
left-wing person who's bought into this
police abolitionism defund the police
black lives matter movement
they manage to think in the most
flattering way possible
about this parallel universe in which
there are no police and there is no
uh there was no prison system there's no
punishment there's no oppression
by just describing it as being for all
mankind
for all the world or for that most
abstract notion of all
for society that society would be a
better place
policing now there's also a
cultural and national level of
abstraction here
the internet has changed the world when
i was a kid in toronto
i knew a lot of immigrants probably most
people i knew were new immigrants
um and a lot of them said things like
back in their own home country there was
no crime
of this sword so you could meet people
from all over the world they'd say oh
here in toronto you have graffiti
back in my old home country there's no
graffiti
um hungarians would say oh
all this stuff you have here with gays
and lesbians we don't have that back in
hungary
there are no gays they really believed
this
you know they had this memory of of the
old country
okay what if you met someone who was a
turkish
immigrant to canada and they told you
you know in turkey
we don't need to have police and force
the law at all
we don't need to have prisons we don't
need you would be dumbfounded
you would say what what are you saying
what are you saying about the turkish
people you think they're angels what are
you saying about turkish culture
how can turkey be so fundamentally
different from the rest of the world are
you saying there are no crimes committed
whether that be
burglary or theft or rape or revenge or
honor killings
i mean this is the thing even in
countries where people adhere to
incredibly strict religious and cultural
codes of conduct
by that same token there's violence and
conflict whenever those
codes of conduct are are broken do you
think nobody
in turkey ever disputes
who should inherit their father's
fortune
when their father dies you don't think
there's any role for the government
getting involved in settling a case like
that
if you pass this law that the government
shall have no
will never set foot into people's
private businesses way just just to
restrict
the scope of the police state that much
the authority of the
police and government-written laws
people are going to kill each other
just as they did in medieval times in
ancient times they're going to kill each
other over who inherits uh
their father's fortune or could be a
tiny amount it could be who inherits
their father's car
or their father's corner store or
whatever there was to be inherited
family disputes of that kind
the fact that in the medieval and
ancient past they weren't resolved by
police or by
courts of law in many cultures around
the world doesn't mean that they were
resolved peaceably or amiably
if it's inconceivable that this notion
of abolishing the police could work
on the scale of the family of the city
of even a country
the size of turkey if talking it through
this way it's inconceivable
why is it conceivable to you in the
realm of these towering abstractions
and it's because these people have
trained themselves to think
in terms of abstractions only and that's
the most fundamental conflict
in politics in the 21st century it's not
the conflict between left and right
it's the conflict between pragmatists
and abstractionists
there are those of us who are reasoning
from the ground up in the world of
tangible things and there are people who
are reasoning from the chalkboard
from abstract equations and formulas
drawn on a chalkboard and then they're
trying to take these abstract things
and make them real in the real world and
those people the people who believe in
lines on a chalkboard
even if they think they're atheists even
if they think they're secular
they're actually engaging in a religious
mindset they're drawing up
ideals they're then idealizing the world
and asking
if only the world could live up to these
idealized
expectations
and down that road is the spanish
inquisition
there's another very fundamental error
and
i've been waiting for some of my
audience to ask me to comment on this
there's a fundamental error
in the approach of black lives matter
and the whole left wing
of the political spectrum i've been
waiting for someone to ask me
what would my solution be for racism in
the western world looking ahead
to what remains of the 21st century and
the 22nd century the fundamental error
that black lives matter
is making is that they
reason through racism
subtractively they look at
a racist society and think
that they can simply subtract racism
and it won't work the way to overcome
racism is not by subtracting
something negative it's by adding
something positive
you may not have known conscious
racists so people who are racist and who
are aware
of their racism they're not in denial
about it i have
and if you get to know those people they
actually do
have anecdotes in their lives about
meeting a person
from this other race that they say they
despise or against that they would never
let their daughter marry
where they really liked the guy and
really got along with the guy and they
thought he was a great guy and maybe
they were even still
friends to this day and for them this is
not a contradiction as follows now i
just mentioned it is not
particular to the black versus white
divide this includes the cambodian
versus vietnamese divide and the chinese
versus mongolian divide i am familiar
with many forms of racism
are very deeply filled another one would
be russians against
jews it's impossible to exaggerate the
intensity of anti-semitism
in eastern europe where they they
utterly regard jewish people as a
completely different race of man from
russians eastern europeans um
but nevertheless they will have been in
some situation
in their private life in their business
life or in some like university
let's say they go to a chess tournament
and someone who is openly unconsciously
anti-semitic ends up meeting and making
friends with someone who's a chess
champion who's jewish
and it's because there's something
positive they both admire
they both appreciate they both struggled
to be the best that they could possibly
be
you meet anti-semitic people who've
actually met and spent time with someone
else who
they're both into competitive chess and
they remember
that was a great guy and they really
respect them or their respect is
intelligent they respect his perspective
on chess
you will meet white people who are
racist against black people
and say terrible things about black
people and they never let their daughter
marry a black person
but you know there was one time when
they went
to an archaeological conference
and there was a black guy there giving a
presentation on the same kind of
archaeology you know they met that black
guy and they went out to dinner
and they got along great now the problem
with this is of course
it doesn't negate their racism they
remain
racist they remain nonetheless
prejudiced
against other black people whom they
have nothing
in common with but just having this one
thing in common becomes a bridge to
exploring
your common humanity however you want to
put it it becomes a
path forward from the ugly isolating
bigotry of racism and it breaks down
the deep-seated presumption that you or
your race or nationality
is somehow intrinsically and
intellectually superior
to people on the other side right
not everyone can be
a chess champion not everyone can be
an archaeologist not everyone can be a
comedian
all of the most racist people i've ever
known or met had comedians specifically
they admired and considered to be
brilliant
who were across the divide of the
whatever the people were that they hated
or despised
very often those comedians were making
jokes that appealed to them
too um what is the hat
that everyone can wear
in confucian society it was the
literature
of confucius and poverty-stricken
farmers in small villages who didn't
have access to universities didn't even
access the tutors could
study the poetry that confucius studied
the book of odes and they could study
the writings of confucius
and they could be recognized as and
respected as
refined gentlemen at court or in various
social forums they could elevate
themselves they could have some of them
they could they could overcome the
unbelievable
class barrier and snobbery that defined
chinese traditional society uh
can you imagine a world in which we have
some
common corpus of literature in which we
have
something that we engage in positively
individually but as members of the same
society
that brings people together that lets
them evaluate one another
that lets them appreciate one another
that lets them build on
that common ground when people have this
kind of common ground
even if they differ even if they hate
and despise each other
think you know that guy has the wrong
approach to chess
that guy his view of archaeology is
completely the wrong way around
there will still fundamentally be that
respect there's a kind of mutual respect
even if it's about issues that are
contested by both sides that defies that
overcomes as i say this backward
childish bigotry
racism as we as we know it in the real
world
the question i have for the future of a
multicultural post-genocidal
post-slavery culture such as we have
here
in the united states canada australia
the fragments of the british empire is
what
could that literature possibly be what
could it be that we all study
and that we have in common some
appreciation for even if differing
views of that answer is much easier to
give
for a country like france a country that
is not built on
genocide all right now the french did
commit
atrocities throughout their empire all
around the world even in north africa
let alone cambodia
that's something within the territory of
france and europe
the indigenous people are the french
germany
quite a few genocides on their hand oh
germany certainly has a
storied history of genocide nevertheless
the indigenous people
of germany are german so you don't have
to look too
far to find a history and a literature
that can be meaningful
to them and can give people this kind of
powerful positive
common ground to overcome racism in the
same way that the literature of
confucianism
which i'm not a fan of provides a kind
of
hat that in chinese culture and chinese
civilization
everyone could wear
for the united states for canada for
australia
if you ask me what is that literature
what could it possibly be my answer is
i don't know but i feel that the single
most important political question we can
ask is not about cutting the policeman's
budget
if you really want an alternative to
racism
if you really want to overcome the
unfathomably
evil history of genocide and slavery
that these british empire colonies were
built on you have to find
or you have to create that literature to
provide that common ground
for our future